# Optimization-Chemical-Manufacturing
  
[Linear Optimization]: Also known as Linear Programming, is a mathematical technique which falls under the branch of mathematics called Mathematical Optimization or Mathematical Programming. Mathematical Optimization is a field of applied mathematics that deals with finding the best solution to problems with certain constraints. It involves finding the values of decision variables that minimize or maximize an objective function while satisfying said constraints. Often seen in chemical manufacturing, food processing, transportation, agriculture, aerospace manufacturing, vehicle manufacturing, and many other industries. LO/LP can prove to be an essential tool for optimizing finite resources or make use of neglected resources that management might overlook by focusing on KPI’s (key performance indicators). In this project I created a fictional scenario for a fictional chemical manufacturing company, with ‘loosely’ based units for plausibility purposes. Due to the dimensional nature of LO/LP it can become challenging to fabricate data which shows a feasibility cloud, while also pairing with a solution that seems plausible. In the problem that I created, technically, the model would ‘exist’ in the 8th dimension. This can prove to be difficult to ‘sandbox’ with, as humans interpret only up to 3 dimensions. At this dimensional level, changing one factor drastically influences others (approx. 8 dimensions • 12 constraints = 96 all interdependent variables).
